README.md, before:

# Atomic CRM

A full-featured CRM built with React, shadcn-admin-kit, and Supabase.

<https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d7554b5-49ef-41c6-bcc9-a76214fc5c99>

Atomic CRM is free and open-source. You can test it online at <https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm-demo>.

## Features

- 📇 **Organize Contacts**: Keep all your contacts in one easily accessible place.
- ⏰ **Create Tasks & Set Reminders**: Never miss a follow-up or deadline.
- 📝 **Take Notes**: Capture important details and insights effortlessly.
- ✉️ **Capture Emails**: CC Atomic CRM to automatically save communications as notes.
- 📊 **Manage Deals**: Visualize and track your sales pipeline in a Kanban board.
- 🔄 **Import & Export Data**: Easily transfer contacts in and out of the system.
- 🔐 **Control Access**: Log in with Google, Azure, Keycloak, and Auth0.
- 📜 **Track Activity History**: View all interactions in aggregated activity logs.
- 🔗 **Integrate via API**: Connect seamlessly with other systems using our API.
- 🛠️ **Customize Everything**: Add custom fields, change the theme, and replace any component to fit your needs.

## Installation

To run this project locally, you will need the following tools installed on your computer:

- Make
- Node 22 LTS
- Docker (required by Supabase)

Fork the [`marmelab/atomic-crm`](https://github.com/marmelab/atomic-crm) repository to your user/organization, then clone it locally:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/[username]/atomic-crm.git
```

Install dependencies:

```sh
cd atomic-crm
make install
```

This will install the dependencies for the frontend and the backend, including a local Supabase instance.

Once your app is configured, start the app locally with the following command:

```sh
make start
```

This will start the Vite dev server for the frontend, the local Supabase instance for the API, and a Postgres database (thanks to Docker).

You can then access the app via [http://localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/). You will be prompted to create the first user.

If you need debug the backend, you can access the following services:

- Supabase dashboard: [http://localhost:54323/](http://localhost:54323/)
- REST API: [http://127.0.0.1:54321](http://127.0.0.1:54321)
- Attachments storage: [http://localhost:54323/project/default/storage/buckets/attachments](http://localhost:54323/project/default/storage/buckets/attachments)
- Inbucket email testing service: [http://localhost:54324/](http://localhost:54324/)

## Documentation

The user and developer documentation for this project is available [in the `doc/` directory](./doc/). You can also read it online at [https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/doc/](https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/doc/).

## Testing Changes

This project contains unit tests. Run them with the following command:

```sh
make test
```

You can add your own unit tests powered by Jest anywhere in the `src` directory. The test files should be named `*.test.tsx` or `*.test.ts`.

## Registry

Atomic CRM components are published as a Shadcn Registry file:

- The `registry.json` file is automatically generated by the `scripts/generate-registry.mjs` script as a pre-commit hook.
- The `http://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/r/atomic-crm.json` file is automatically published by the CI/CD pipeline

> [!WARNING]  
> If the `registry.json` misses some changes you made, you MUST update the `scripts/generate-registry.mjs` to include those changes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License, courtesy of [Marmelab](https://marmelab.com). See the [LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md) file for details.

Commit message:

docs: update tooling and filter guidance
Document the current Vitest and lint workflow, note the registry regeneration behavior, and add guidance for reusable date range filters in CRM lists.

README.md, after:

# Atomic CRM

A full-featured CRM built with React, shadcn-admin-kit, and Supabase.

<https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d7554b5-49ef-41c6-bcc9-a76214fc5c99>

Atomic CRM is free and open-source. You can test it online at <https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm-demo>.

## Features

- 📇 **Organize Contacts**: Keep all your contacts in one easily accessible place.
- ⏰ **Create Tasks & Set Reminders**: Never miss a follow-up or deadline.
- 📝 **Take Notes**: Capture important details and insights effortlessly.
- ✉️ **Capture Emails**: CC Atomic CRM to automatically save communications as notes.
- 📊 **Manage Deals**: Visualize and track your sales pipeline in a Kanban board.
- 🔄 **Import & Export Data**: Easily transfer contacts in and out of the system.
- 🔐 **Control Access**: Log in with Google, Azure, Keycloak, and Auth0.
- 📜 **Track Activity History**: View all interactions in aggregated activity logs.
- 🔗 **Integrate via API**: Connect seamlessly with other systems using our API.
- 🛠️ **Customize Everything**: Add custom fields, change the theme, and replace any component to fit your needs.

## Installation

To run this project locally, you will need the following tools installed on your computer:

- Make
- Node 22 LTS
- Docker (required by Supabase)

Fork the [`marmelab/atomic-crm`](https://github.com/marmelab/atomic-crm) repository to your user/organization, then clone it locally:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/[username]/atomic-crm.git
```

Install dependencies:

```sh
cd atomic-crm
make install
```

This will install the dependencies for the frontend and the backend, including a local Supabase instance.

Once your app is configured, start the app locally with the following command:

```sh
make start
```

This will start the Vite dev server for the frontend, the local Supabase instance for the API, and a Postgres database (thanks to Docker).

You can then access the app via [http://localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/). You will be prompted to create the first user.

If you need debug the backend, you can access the following services:

- Supabase dashboard: [http://localhost:54323/](http://localhost:54323/)
- REST API: [http://127.0.0.1:54321](http://127.0.0.1:54321)
- Attachments storage: [http://localhost:54323/project/default/storage/buckets/attachments](http://localhost:54323/project/default/storage/buckets/attachments)
- Inbucket email testing service: [http://localhost:54324/](http://localhost:54324/)

## Documentation

The user and developer documentation for this project is available [in the `doc/` directory](./doc/). You can also read it online at [https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/doc/](https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/doc/).

## Testing Changes

This project uses Vitest for unit tests and Prettier for formatting checks.
Run the main quality checks with the following commands:

```sh
make test
make typecheck
make lint
```

`make lint` runs ESLint first, then performs a repository-wide Prettier check.

You can add your own unit tests powered by Vitest anywhere in the `src` directory. The test files should be named `*.test.tsx` or `*.test.ts`.

## Registry

Atomic CRM components are published as a Shadcn Registry file:

- The `registry.json` file is automatically generated by the `scripts/generate-registry.mjs` script as a pre-commit hook.
- When you add a reusable component under `src/components/atomic-crm`, check whether the hook regenerated `registry.json` and include that change in your commit.
- The `http://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/r/atomic-crm.json` file is automatically published by the CI/CD pipeline

> [!WARNING]  
> If the `registry.json` misses some changes you made, you MUST update the `scripts/generate-registry.mjs` to include those changes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License, courtesy of [Marmelab](https://marmelab.com). See the [LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md) file for details.
